Title: Crypto edges off of worst levels after Trump extends Iran strike pause
Source: CoinDesk
URL: https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2026/03/26/crypto-edges-off-of-worst-levels-after-trump-extends-iran-strike-pause

BitcoinBTC$67,902.62pared earlier lossesThursday afternoon after U.S. President Donald Trump said he would extend a pause on attacks against Iran’s energy infrastructure.

In aTruth Social post, Trump said the pause will now be 10 days, citing ongoing diplomatic talks.

"As per Iranian Government request… I am pausing the period of Energy Plant destruction by 10 Days," Trump wrote, adding that the "talks are ongoing" and "they are going very well."

The news helped stabilize markets after an ugly Thursday that saw bitcoin slide 3% and the Nasdaq 2.4%, with that tech-heavy index now lower by about 10% since peaking for the year in late January.

The surge in oil prices since the breakout of hostilities has garnered most of the headlines, but the selloff in Western bond markets is growing more troublesome.

The U.S. 10-year Treasury yield — below 4% just weeks ago — jumped to as high as 4.43% on Thursday, before pulling back to the current 4.41%. Alongside that sharp rise has been not just the vanishing of expectations for Federal Reserve interest rate cuts, but also serious bets that the U.S. central bank will soon hike rates.

Similar moves in bond yields and central bank expectations are taking place across Western Europe as well.

Nevertheless, the Trump comments sent bitcoin higher by about 1% from its worst levels, and it is now trading just above $69,000. Ether (ETH), XRP (XRP), Solana (SOL) andADA$0.2522all also rebounded from session lows, though they remained 3%-5% lower over the past 24 hours.

As stablecoins evolve into core financial infrastructure, North America leads. This report maps the regulation, market shifts, and players driving adoption.

Stablecoins are entering their third phase of evolution - the institutionalization era - becoming increasingly embedded into core financial infrastructure. As institutions prioritize transparency and compliance, regulated issuers like USDC, RLUSD, and PYUSD are steadily gaining share with RLUSD surpassing $1B in market cap within its first year. North America, leading in regulatory frameworks and institutional distribution, is at the center of it all.

ETFs show institutional demand for bitcoin is cooling after a strong start to the month.