Title: India Arrests Suspect Tied to Myanmar Crypto Scam Compounds
Source: Decrypt
URL: https://decrypt.co/362553/india-arrests-suspect-tied-to-myanmar-crypto-scam-compounds

India Arrests Suspect Tied to Myanmar Crypto Scam Compounds

India's top federal investigative agency has arrested a Mumbai-based man, who they say is a central kingpin in a transnational trafficking network that funneled unsuspecting Indians into crypto fraud compounds in Myanmar.

The Central Bureau of Investigation arrested Sunil Nellathu Ramakrishnan, also known as Krish, on Thursday after he returned to India, the agency said in astatementon Thursday.

Ramakrishnan played a central role in transporting victims from Delhi to Bangkok under the pretense of legitimate employment in Thailand, before diverting them to cyber-fraud compounds in Myanmar's Myawaddy region, particularly a facility known as KK Park, CBI said.

There, victims were forced to conduct digital arrest scams, romance frauds, and crypto investment schemes targeting people globally, including in India, while subjected to wrongful confinement, physical abuse, and severe restrictions on movement.

Searches at his residence yielded digital evidence linking him to trafficking operations in Myanmar and Cambodia, according to the agency.

Southeast Asian scam compounds, overwhelmingly reliant on trafficked labor, have emerged as one of the largest organized cybercrime industries in the world.

The CBI said several Indian nationals managed to escape the compounds during last year and were repatriated from Thailand in March and November of that year.

Interviews with those victims informed the intelligence that led to Ramakrishnan's identification and arrest, the agency said.

The CBI said it is continuing to investigate other accused persons, including foreign nationals, and is working to uncover the full extent of operations spanning Myanmar and Cambodia.

“The larger opportunity is in strengthening crypto forensics capacity further,” in the case of such scam compounds, Vedang Vatsa, Founder of Hashtag Web3, toldDecrypt.

“Blockchain tracing tools are now a growing part of investigations globally, and Indian agencies are well-positioned to leverage these as they build on their existing frameworks,” Vatsa said.

Deeper cross-border engagement with analytics firms can help “map broader financial networks” beyond such individual cases, he added.

“CBI's arrest of these scam network operators disrupts fraudulent schemes targeting gullible Indians, along with reducing crypto-related fraud risks, indirectly helping clean India's crypto ecosystem, and encouraging legitimate adoption from Indian users,” Krishnendu Chatterjee, CEO and co-founder of A2ZCryptoInvestment, toldDecrypt.

Last November,Interpol formally designatedscam compound networks a transnational criminal threat affecting victims from more than 60 countries, recognizing that crypto-related fraud now sits at the core of the sprawling industry.

In January,Chinese authorities executed11 members of the Ming family crime clan, which ran scam operations in northern Myanmar, generating more than $1.4 billion in fraudulent proceeds and linked to the deaths of at least 14 Chinese nationals.

Last month, the U.S. Attorney for D.C. announced that its Scam Center Strike Force had frozen and seizedmore than $580 million in cryptofrom networks operating across Burma, Cambodia, and Laos.

A U.S. federal court also sentenced pig butchering organizerDaren Li to 20 years in prisonfor his role in a $73 million crypto fraud scheme that he carried out from scam centers in the Kingdom of Cambodia, after he fled by cutting off an electronic monitoring device.

Your gateway into the world of Web3

The latest news, articles, and resources, sent to your inbox weekly.

© A next-generation media company.2026Decrypt Media, Inc.