Title: NYSE Parent Company Finalizes Polymarket Investment, Totaling $1.6 Billion
Source: Decrypt
URL: https://decrypt.co/362596/nyse-parent-company-finalizes-polymarket-investment-1-6-billion

NYSE Parent Company Finalizes Polymarket Investment, Totaling $1.6 Billion

New York Stock Exchange parent company Intercontinental Exchange has completed its investment into prominent prediction market platform Polymarket, with the final total landing at $1.6 billion.

ICE said the new funding is part of an equity capital fundraising by Polymarket, and that the firm intends to purchase up to $40 million worth of Polymarket securities from existing holders.

The NYSE parent company made a commitment of up to $2 billion to Polymarket inOctober 2025that valued the company at $9 billion. Back then, the company made a $1 billion initial investment. The additional $600 million and the plan to purchase securities from existing investors mean that the firm's obligations to Polymarket have now been fulfilled.

Polymarket has been locked in a heated competition with rival platform Kalshi, even when it comes to fundraising.

Kalshi justraised $1 billionearlier this month in a round led by Coatue Management, at a $22 billion valuation—double its $11 billion valuation from a December round backed by Paradigm, Andreessen Horowitz, Ark Invest, and Sequoia.

Kalshi has been on a rapid fundraising tear sincewinning a CFTC court battlein May 2025. That cleared the way for its election contracts to be offered and the company to scale from a$2 billion valuation in June 2025to its current $22 billion in under a year.

Polymarket recently put together a 3-day Washington D.C. pop-up experience, the Situation Room, which was billed as the world’s first brick-and-mortar destination for monitoring global prediction markets. It got mixed reviews fromjournalistsinattendance—tech outletWiredcalled it "a disaster," due to the screens being off on opening night thanks to technical difficulties.

There may or may not have been a situation in the Situation Room last night. Reports remain unconfirmed.

However, the situation monitors are now on… & ready to be monitored.

See you at 11am.pic.twitter.com/Us7PXsPC1A

— Polymarket (@Polymarket)March 21, 2026

The investment comes as prediction markets face growing regulatory scrutiny in Washington and in multiple states.

Massachusetts Rep. Seth Moultonbanned his stafffrom trading on platforms like Polymarket and Kalshi this week, citing concerns about insider trading. The additional funding for Polymarket arrives a few weeks afterbipartisan lawmakersintroduced thePREDICT Actto extend similar restrictions to members of Congress, senior officials, and their families.

Separately, senators have proposed bans on sports contracts and war-related markets, following controversy over profitable bets tied to U.S. strikes on Iran and the capture of Venezuela's Nicolás Maduro. Also on Friday, California Governor Gavin Newsomsigned an executive orderto ban state officials and governor appointees from betting on prediction markets using insider info.

Your gateway into the world of Web3

The latest news, articles, and resources, sent to your inbox weekly.

© A next-generation media company.2026Decrypt Media, Inc.