Title: 80% of Strategy's ‘Stretch’ buyers are mom-and-pop investors
Source: Cointelegraph
URL: https://cointelegraph.com/news/retail-buyers-dominate-strategy-stretch-shares?utm_source=rss_feed&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=rss_partner_inbound

Stretch shares are an on-ramp for people who believe Bitcoin will be around for the long term but can’t handle the near-term volatility, explained Michael Saylor.

Cointelegraph in your social feed

Retail investors dominate Strategy’s “Stretch” shares, which have been used to acquire over $1 billion worth of Bitcoin this year.

Roughly 80% of STRC holders are retail investors, according to CEO Phong Le, who said on Wednesday that these investors “prefer low-volatility, high-yield digital credit.”

“Retail investors prefer low-volatility, high-yield digital credit,” he added.

The figure suggests that retail investors are still interested in exposure to Bitcoin, even though it is down about 45% from its all-time high.

Strategy’s executive chairman, Michael Saylor, has been stepping up sales and marketing of Stretch following the drop in Bitcoin and the company's stock, pitching the shares as a way to gain exposure to BTC without the volatility.

In March, Strategy used around $1.2 billion from at-the-market sales of STRC to buy Bitcoin, though it switched back to using the sale of common stock in itsmost recent buy.

“Normally, the hardest thing in the world to do is to sell a new credit instrument to a retail investor,” Saylor said Thursday at the 2026 Digital Asset Summit in New York.

“11% is a big number.”“Am I offending you if I call it a money market fund?” -@SullyCNBCDigital Credit is redefining yield.Today we discussed Stretch$STRCon@PowerLunch.pic.twitter.com/oirw3PGZBi

Speaking on CNBC’s “Power Lunch” on Thursday, Saylorsaid, “The idea is to create an onramp for people who believe Bitcoin is going to be around for the long term, but they can't handle the volatility in the near term.”

He added that Stretch strips the first 10% to 11% of annual Bitcoin (BTC) returns and passes it to the credit investor. STRC is “way overcollateralized,” but Strategy is betting that Bitcoin will rise more than 11% per year, and “our equity holders are going to make a fortune,” while credit investors are happy with 11%, he said.

Related:Strategy halts Bitcoin buying via STRC: Will BTC price dip again?

Strategy’s common stock (MSTR) is down 19% this year and almost 71% from its July 2025 all-time high of $456,accordingto Google Finance. The Stretch shares, meanwhile, pay annual dividends of about 11.5%, higher than US Treasurys, which currently yield about 4%.

The investments are perpetual derivatives, meaning they do not have a maturity date, soStrategynever has to pay investors back like a bond, and they can be held indefinitely, earning dividends. The dividend rate is variable and adjusts monthly with market conditions.

The goal of these adjustments is to keep the trading price anchored near $100, making it behave more like a high-yield savings account than a volatile stock or crypto asset.

In February, the company said it wouldrely moreon its preferred stock sales to acquire Bitcoin.

It went further this week,revealing plansin a Securities and Exchange Commission filing on Monday to raise up to $21 billion by selling Strategy stock and another $21 billion from Stretch through new at-the-market programs.

Magazine:Nobody knows if quantum secure cryptography will even work

Cointelegraph covers fintech, blockchain and Bitcoin bringing you the latest crypto news and analyses on the future of money.

Cointelegraph is committed to providing independent, high-quality journalism across the crypto, blockchain, AI, and fintech industries. To support open access to our website and sustain editorial operations, certain commercial or partner references may appear on our site. These arrangements help maintain an accessible platform and do not result in additional costs to readers.

All news, reviews, and analysis are produced with full journalistic independence and integrity. For more details on our standards and processes, please read ourEditorial Policy.