Title: Trump to put his signature on US dollars, breaking a tradition since 1861
Source: Cointelegraph
URL: https://cointelegraph.com/news/trump-become-first-sitting-president-to-put-signature-on-us-currency?utm_source=rss_feed&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=rss_partner_inbound

The Treasury Department announced plans to add US President Donald Trump’s signature to US currency, reportedly starting with the $100 bill in June.

Cointelegraph in your social feed

US President Donald Trump is set to become the first sitting president in history to have his signature put on US paper currency.

In anannouncementon Thursday, theUS Department of the Treasurysaid the move would mark the 250th anniversary of the US. It will put both Trump andTreasury Secretary Scott Bessent’ssignatures on future US notes.

“There is no more powerful way to recognize the historic achievements of our great country and President Donald J. Trump than U.S. dollar bills bearing his name, and it is only appropriate that this historic currency be issued at the Semiquincentennial,” Bessent said.

Until now, the tradition has been to put the signatures of the treasurer and the Treasury secretary on US paper currency. This move would mark the first time in history that a sitting president is placing his signature on US currency.

According to areportfrom Reuters on Thursday, the first $100 bills with Trump and Bessent’s signatures will be printed in June, with other bills following in later months.

Trump’s name and likeness have also made their way to cryptocurrencies, famous landmarks and commemorative coins.

Alongside the Treasury’s plans to put Trump’s signature on US notes, there are also potentially $1 coins with the president’s face on them that could enter circulation as part of the US’s 250th anniversary.

In late 2025, the US Mint released three proposed designs bearing Trump’s face and the caption “In God We Trust.”

Trump has also helped oversee the renaming of major US landmarks such as the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.

The board of the Kennedy Center, reportedly filled with Trump appointees,votedin late December to change the name to the “Donald J. Trump and the John F. Kennedy Memorial Center for the Performing Arts.”

Related:SEC is no longer a ‘cop on the beat’ on crypto, says US lawmaker

This has prompted pushback, however, with lawmakersarguingthat the move is illegal when done without authorization from Congress.

In the crypto world, Trump has amemecoin named after himselfand he has also released multiple NFT projects, including the Trump Digital Trading Cards.

Magazine:Clarity Act risks repeat of Europe’s mistakes, crypto lawyer warns

Cointelegraph covers fintech, blockchain and Bitcoin bringing you the latest crypto news and analyses on the future of money.

Cointelegraph is committed to providing independent, high-quality journalism across the crypto, blockchain, AI, and fintech industries. To support open access to our website and sustain editorial operations, certain commercial or partner references may appear on our site. These arrangements help maintain an accessible platform and do not result in additional costs to readers.

All news, reviews, and analysis are produced with full journalistic independence and integrity. For more details on our standards and processes, please read ourEditorial Policy.