Title: Australia's central bank backs tokenization as pilot finds $16.7B upside
Source: Cointelegraph
URL: https://cointelegraph.com/news/australian-central-bank-backs-rwa-tokenisation-explores-digital-finance-sandbox?utm_source=rss_feed&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=rss_partner_inbound

Tokenized finance and related infrastructure upgrades could be “revolutionary,” according to industry advocates cited by the Reserve Bank of Australia.

Cointelegraph in your social feed

The Reserve Bank of Australia is putting its support behind the real-world asset tokenization sector, citing recent analysis that it could contribute 24 billion Australian dollars ($16.7 billion) to the economy per year.

Assistant Governor Brad Jones said on Wednesday thatfindingsfrom Project Acacia suggest tokenized finance and related infrastructure upgrades could be “revolutionary,” according to industry advocates cited in the report.

He said that potential gains for theAustralian economyfrom RWA tokenization were on the order of $16.7 billion per year, “and larger still if new markets emerged.”

Global consulting firm McKinsey & Company hasforecastthat the value of tokenized assets could hit nearly $2 trillion by 2030. The head of Australia’s securities regulator, Joe Longo, in Novemberurgedthe country to “seize the opportunity” or be left behind.

Project Acacia is the RBA’s collaborative research project run with the Digital Finance Cooperative Research Centre and industry groups.

It was built on a previous central bank digital currencypilotand explored whether tokenized assets could improve the functioning of Australia’s wholesale financial markets.

Jones said the RBA will partner with agencies and industry groups to explore a “new digital financial market infrastructure (DFMI) sandbox.”

He added that this could allow industry and policymakers to build on the learnings from Project Acacia.

Related:Major Australian pension fund mulls crypto offerings amid growing demand

It could also “smooth the path to practical implementation by providing a safe space for the testing and scaling of tokenized money, assets, and new infrastructure in a longer-term, stage-gated environment,” he said, adding that it could be tied in with a CBDC.

Jones concluded that ensuring Australia’s payments, monetary and financial infrastructure arrangements are “fit for purpose” in the digital age is a “strategic priority for the RBA.”

The totalRWA marketonchain value hit a record high of $27.5 billion last week, excluding stablecoins,accordingto RWA.xyz. The sector has seen significant growth, surging by 234% over the past 12 months despite the broader crypto asset bear market.

Magazine:Banks want to run Vietnam’s crypto exchanges, Boyaa’s $70M BTC plan: Asia Express

Cointelegraph covers fintech, blockchain and Bitcoin bringing you the latest crypto news and analyses on the future of money.

Cointelegraph is committed to providing independent, high-quality journalism across the crypto, blockchain, AI, and fintech industries. To support open access to our website and sustain editorial operations, certain commercial or partner references may appear on our site. These arrangements help maintain an accessible platform and do not result in additional costs to readers.

All news, reviews, and analysis are produced with full journalistic independence and integrity. For more details on our standards and processes, please read ourEditorial Policy.