Title: Iran weighing crypto tolls for ships using Strait of Hormuz: Report
Source: Cointelegraph
URL: https://cointelegraph.com/news/iran-crypto-ships-strait-hormuz?utm_source=rss_feed&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=rss_partner_inbound

Empty tankers will reportedly be permitted to pass through the waterway under the US-Iran deal, but certain ships will need to pay a tariff of $1 per barrel of oil in Bitcoin.

Cointelegraph in your social feed

Hours after US President Donald Trump claimed that Iran and the United States had agreed to a two-week ceasefire that included opening the Strait of Hormuz, Iranian authorities are reportedly considering charging ships using the waterway in cryptocurrency.

According to a Wednesday Financial Times report, a spokesperson for Iran’s Oil, Gas and Petrochemical Products Exporters’ Unionsaidempty oil tankers will be able to pass through the Strait of Hormuz without incurring charges, but certain ships will need to pay a tariff of $1 per barrel of oil in Bitcoin (BTC).

The spokesperson, Hamid Hosseini, reportedly said Iranian authorities would also assess each ship using the waterway over the two-week period to ensure it wasn’t transporting weapons.

“Once the email arrives and Iran completes its assessment, vessels are given a few seconds to pay in Bitcoin, ensuring they can’t be traced or confiscated due to sanctions,” said Hosseini, according to the Financial Times.

Many ships have effectively been cut off from using the Strait of Hormuz to transport oil and other supplies after US-Israel air strikes on Iranian targets in February and March. Amid the move by Iran and geopolitical tensions, the price of crude oil exceeded $100 per barrel for the first time in four years and the prices of many cryptocurrencies were volatile, with BTC fluctuating between $65,000 and $75,000.

Related:Bitcoin reclaims $72K after US, Iran agree to 2-week ceasefire

Trump claimed on his Truth Social platform on Tuesday that the ceasefire deal included  the suspension of the “bombing and attack of Iran for a period of two weeks” and the “complete, immediate, and safe opening of the Strait of Hormuz.” Iran's state media reported that the country delivered a 10-point plan to the US president as a condition for the deal, including continued control of the waterway and the end of sanctions on Iran.

Before the escalation of hostilities between US-Israeli forces and Iran in February, reports suggested that Iran had beenusing digital assets to evade sanctionsamid its currency, the rial, dropping against the US dollar.

Blockchain analytics platform Ellipticreportedin January that Iran’s central bank acquired $500 million worth of Tether’s USDt (USDT) stablecoin. TRM Labs alsotracked about $3.7 billionin total crypto flows in Iran between January and July 2025.

Magazine:‘Phantom Bitcoin’ checks, Drift hack linked to North Korea: Asia Express

Cointelegraph covers fintech, blockchain and Bitcoin bringing you the latest crypto news and analyses on the future of money.

Cointelegraph is committed to providing independent, high-quality journalism across the crypto, blockchain, AI, and fintech industries. To support open access to our website and sustain editorial operations, certain commercial or partner references may appear on our site. These arrangements help maintain an accessible platform and do not result in additional costs to readers.

All news, reviews, and analysis are produced with full journalistic independence and integrity. For more details on our standards and processes, please read ourEditorial Policy.