Title: White House crypto czar David Sacks transfers to presidential advisory committee role
Source: CoinDesk
URL: https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2026/03/26/white-house-crypto-czar-david-sacks-transfers-to-presidential-advisory-committee-role

White House AI and Crypto Czar David Sacks is changing titles and joining the President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology as co-chair, he announced Thursday.

Sacks, who was named U.S. President Donald Trump's crypto and AI czar before Trump retook office last January, has overseen the White House's early work on crypto initiatives, including the passage of the stablecoin-focused GENIUS Act and more recently, work around the crypto market structure bill.

"PCAST is the principal body of external advisors tasked with shaping science, technology, and innovation policy for the President and the White House," he said ina post on X(formerly Twitter). "Thirteen of the world’s most accomplished leaders in science and technology will join us as this PCAST’s initial members."

Sackstold Bloombergearlier Thursday that his czar role was designated as a "special government employee," meaning he legally could only serve in that position for 130 working days. Democrats in Congresshad already raised concernsthat he had exceeded this period last fall.

He does not have this same issue serving as a co-chair on the advisory committee.

Sacks said in the Bloomberg interview that the council would make policy recommendations and conduct studies around artificial intelligence, quantum computing, nuclear power and other "cutting edge technologies."

"I think you can expect us to make some recommendations in those areas. We want to push forward the president's A.I. framework that was already released just last week," Sacks said in the interview. "So you'll see, I think, a lot of activity around that. But it will also be other areas as well."

Sacks did not mention crypto in the interview.

Other members of the committee include Andreessen Horowitz co-founder Marc Andreessen, Google co-founder Sergey Brin, Dell founder Michael Dell, early Coinbase backer Fred Ehrsam, NVIDIA CEO Jensen Huang, AMD CEO Lisa Su and Meta (formerly Facebook) founder Mark Zuckerberg, among others. Michael Kratsios, who's served in both of Trump's administrations, will serve as the co-chair.

As stablecoins evolve into core financial infrastructure, North America leads. This report maps the regulation, market shifts, and players driving adoption.

Stablecoins are entering their third phase of evolution - the institutionalization era - becoming increasingly embedded into core financial infrastructure. As institutions prioritize transparency and compliance, regulated issuers like USDC, RLUSD, and PYUSD are steadily gaining share with RLUSD surpassing $1B in market cap within its first year. North America, leading in regulatory frameworks and institutional distribution, is at the center of it all.

Maxine Waters, who would likely take the House Financial Services Committee gavel again if Democrats win the House, sent a letter to the Kansas City Fed.