Title: Future US governments could crack down on crypto without clear rules: Coin Center
Source: Cointelegraph
URL: https://cointelegraph.com/news/crypto-future-us-crackdowns-clarity-act?utm_source=rss_feed&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=rss_partner_inbound

The CLARITY Act stalled in the Senate after banks, crypto firms, and lawmakers failed to reach an agreement on key provisions like allowing stablecoin yields.

Cointelegraph in your social feed

Failing to pass the crypto market structure bill, known as the CLARITY Act, could leave the door open for a future less industry-friendly US government to crack down on crypto again, Peter Van Valkenburgh the executive director of advocacy group Coin Center says.

In an X post on Friday, Van Valkenburgharguedthat rejecting developer protections inlegislation like the CLARITY Actand the Blockchain Regulatory Certainty Act in favor of “short-term business interests” and the “continued goodwill of those in charge” could lead to a “grim” future for the industry.

“The point of passing CLARITY is not to trust this administration. It is to bind the next one,” he said, adding that “A world without CLARITY’s statutory protections for developers is a world governed by prosecutorial discretion, political fashion, and fear.”

The CLARITY Actstalled in the Senate after banks, crypto firms, and lawmakers failed to agree on key provisions — including whether toallow stablecoin yields. The bill covers a range of measures, including frameworks for registering crypto intermediaries, regulating digital assets and classifying tokens

During the previous US administration, former SEC Chair Gary Gensler drew heavy criticism from the crypto industry for allegedly crafting policy through enforcement actions and legal settlements with crypto firms rather than formal rulemaking.

Van Valkenburgh also predicts that, without legislative clarification, a future administration’s Department of Justice couldramp up prosecutions of privacy-tool developersas unlicensed money transmitters, and that existing regulatory interpretive guidance could be revoked.

Related:Crypto investor sentiment will rise once CLARITY Act is passed: Bessent

Since Gensler resigned on Jan. 20, 2025, crypto proponents have seen a regulatory shift by the SEC, including thedismissal of several long-running enforcementactions against crypto firms and friendlier guidance on how the agency will treat crypto.

“If we lose this moment because we thought we’d have a bit more revenue and a bit more latitude under the short-term friendly discretion of the current administration, then we lose our way,” Van Valkenburgh said.

Magazine:Nobody knows if quantum secure cryptography will even work

Cointelegraph covers fintech, blockchain and Bitcoin bringing you the latest crypto news and analyses on the future of money.

Cointelegraph is committed to providing independent, high-quality journalism across the crypto, blockchain, AI, and fintech industries. To support open access to our website and sustain editorial operations, certain commercial or partner references may appear on our site. These arrangements help maintain an accessible platform and do not result in additional costs to readers.

All news, reviews, and analysis are produced with full journalistic independence and integrity. For more details on our standards and processes, please read ourEditorial Policy.