Title: Bitcoin dips 3% as analysis says $70K BTC price ‘not obviously bearish’
Source: Cointelegraph
URL: https://cointelegraph.com/news/bitcoin-dips-3percent-analysis-70k-btc-price-not-obviously-bearish?utm_source=rss_feed&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=rss_partner_inbound

Bitcoin lost its grip on $70,000 amid inflation and recession talk as analysis suggested that BTC price action lacked "outright stress."

Cointelegraph in your social feed

Bitcoin (BTC) daily losses approached 3% at Thursday’s Wall Street open as markets stayed on edge over fresh Iran tensions.

Bitcoin slips from $70,000 as markets continue to monitor developments in Iran.

Inflation and recession worries grow louder with no clear end to the conflict in sight.

Bitcoin analysis avoids an outright bearish appraisal of BTC price action.

Data from TradingView showed BTC/USD nearing $69,000 for the first time since Monday.

Volatility picked up as the US session began, with traders reacting to the latest developments in the US-Iran war.

A reported lack of mutual understanding over a peace proposal followed pressure from US President Donald Trump.

In a post on Truth Social, Trump called Iranian negotiators “very different and ‘strange.’”

“They better get serious soon, before it is too late, because once that happens, there is NO TURNING BACK, and it won’t be pretty!” he wrote.

US stocks turned red at the open, while attention also focused on the longer-term impact of the conflict on inflation.

As reported by trading resource The Kobeissi Letter and others, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) put US inflation at 4.2% in 2026 — the highest among G7 countries.

“Potential rate HIKES in the US and EU are now back on the table,” itrespondedon X, referring to central banks raising interest rates — a key headwind for crypto.

Earlier,Cointelegraph reportedon increasing expectations that the US would enter a recession within the next 12 months.

With Bitcoin still wedged in a narrow range, trading company QCP Capital stressed its “resilience” within the overall macro landscape.

Related:Bitcoin ‘compression’ outcome may send BTC to $80K: Analyst

“BTC is hovering around $70k, and the price action still feels more like quiet consolidation than outright stress,” it summarized in its latest “Market Color” analysis on the day.

QCP described Bitcoin’s price activity as “not obviously bearish.”

“For now, BTC is trading like an asset being accumulated on dips but not yet chased. The range is holding, the surface is defensive but orderly, and macro remains firmly in the driver’s seat,” it added.

AsCointelegraph continues to report, many traders remain highly risk-averse to BTC, expecting new macro lows to result from an eventual range breakdown.

This article does not contain investment advice or recommendations. Every investment and trading move involves risk, and readers should conduct their own research when making a decision. While we strive to provide accurate and timely information, Cointelegraph does not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, or reliability of any information in this article. This article may contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Cointelegraph will not be liable for any loss or damage arising from your reliance on this information.

Cointelegraph covers fintech, blockchain and Bitcoin bringing you the latest crypto news and analyses on the future of money.

Cointelegraph is committed to providing independent, high-quality journalism across the crypto, blockchain, AI, and fintech industries. To support open access to our website and sustain editorial operations, certain commercial or partner references may appear on our site. These arrangements help maintain an accessible platform and do not result in additional costs to readers.

All news, reviews, and analysis are produced with full journalistic independence and integrity. For more details on our standards and processes, please read ourEditorial Policy.