Title: Bitcoin nears lowest in three weeks as BTC price targets drop to $41K
Source: Cointelegraph
URL: https://cointelegraph.com/news/bitcoin-nears-lowest-in-three-weeks-btc-price-targets-drop-41k?utm_source=rss_feed&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=rss_partner_inbound

Bitcoin grabbed downside liquidity as oil-supply pressure sent BTC price action below $66,500 to its lowest levels since March 9.

Cointelegraph in your social feed

Bitcoin (BTC) neared three-week lows into Friday’s Wall Street open amid reports of Iran closing the Strait of Hormuz oil route.

Bitcoin reacts badly to fresh oil-supply threats ahead of Friday’s Wall Street open.

BTC price action hunts bid liquidity, continuing a week of low-time frame liquidity grabs.

Another bear flag threatens to send the market below $50,000, analysis says.

Data from TradingView showed BTC price action slipping below $66,500 ahead of the Wall Street open.

US stocks futures trended down and US WTI crude oil eyed $97 per barrel as geopolitical tensions refused to let up.

Data fromCoinGlassshowed BTC/USD eating into a ladder of bid liquidity extending down to $65,000, with a wall of asks keeping price pinned below the $70,000 mark.

“$70-71k confirmed as resistance again,” trader Jellewrotein analysis on X the day prior.

The latest market moves continued a theme of liquidity grabsseen throughout the week.

Continuing, crypto trader Michaël Van de Poppe said that he would not be “surprised” about further BTC price weakness into the March monthly candle close.

“Especially given that we're currently anticipating a potential sweep of the lows,” hetoldX followers on the day.

On longer time frames, market participants focused on a potential bearish support breakdown from Bitcoin’s second bear flag construction of 2026.

Related:US recession odds near 50%: Can Bitcoin copy 2020 comeback gains?

Previously occurring in January, the current bear flag hasproduced targets below $50,000.

“Bitcoin setting up for a rising wedge sell signal,” veteran trader Peter Brandtwarnedon Wednesday, joining those calls.

In his ownX update, trader and educator Aaron Dishner continued the bearish tone around the flag structure.

“BTC is doing exactly what the bear flag setup called for. Price broke below the cloud yesterday on the daily, and today opened below it - currently down just 0.32% but that's not a recovery, that's hesitation,” he commented.

This article does not contain investment advice or recommendations. Every investment and trading move involves risk, and readers should conduct their own research when making a decision. While we strive to provide accurate and timely information, Cointelegraph does not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, or reliability of any information in this article. This article may contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Cointelegraph will not be liable for any loss or damage arising from your reliance on this information.

Cointelegraph covers fintech, blockchain and Bitcoin bringing you the latest crypto news and analyses on the future of money.

Cointelegraph is committed to providing independent, high-quality journalism across the crypto, blockchain, AI, and fintech industries. To support open access to our website and sustain editorial operations, certain commercial or partner references may appear on our site. These arrangements help maintain an accessible platform and do not result in additional costs to readers.

All news, reviews, and analysis are produced with full journalistic independence and integrity. For more details on our standards and processes, please read ourEditorial Policy.