Title: Morgan Stanley sets 0.14% Bitcoin ETF fee, lowest in market if approved
Source: Cointelegraph
URL: https://cointelegraph.com/news/morgan-stanley-sets-ultra-low-fee-for-bitcoin-etf?utm_source=rss_feed&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=rss_partner_inbound

Bloomberg ETF analyst Eric Balchunas said Morgan Stanley’s 16,000 financial advisors, who manage $6.2 trillion in client assets, would have no problem recommending the product at such low fees.

Cointelegraph in your social feed

Investment bank Morgan Stanley is seeking to launch its spot Bitcoin exchange-traded fund at a 0.14% fee, which would make it the cheapest in the US market and potentially force rivals to cut fees to stay competitive.

The 0.14% fee,proposedin Morgan Stanley’s latest S-1 registration statement on Friday, would be one basis point below the Grayscale Bitcoin Mini Trust ETF (BTC), currently the cheapest in the US market, and 11 basis points below the BlackRock-issued iShares Bitcoin Trust ETF (IBIT).

“Big move here. They are not messing around,” Bloomberg ETF analyst James Seyffartsaid,predicting that the Morgan Stanley Bitcoin Trust (MSBT) is “likely to launch in early April.”

Fellow Bloomberg ETF analyst Eric Balchunassaidthe low fee means that none of Morgan Stanley’s roughly 16,000 financial advisors — which manage $6.2 trillion in client assets — would feel conflicted in recommending the product to its clients.

Given that spot Bitcoin ETFs track the price movements of Bitcoin (BTC), Morgan Stanley’s ultra-low fee could spark a fresh fee war in the $83 billion market, putting immediate pressure on rivals to cut costs or risk losing assets.

Regulatory approval would make Morgan Stanley the first bank to issue a spot Bitcoin ETF, expanding access to Bitcoin exposure for millions of its high-net-worth clients.

“They are the ultimate gatekeepers of rich boomer money,” Balchunasadded.

Morgan Stanley previously selectedCoinbase and Bank of New York Mellonas the proposed custodians for its Bitcoin ETF.

Morgan Stanley, previously one of the more crypto-hesitant Wall Street firms, filed for the spot Bitcoin ETFin the first weekof January, along with a Solana (SOL) ETF.

Related:Bitcoin traders see 53% odds of sub-$66K BTC by April 24

It then filed papers for a staked Ether (ETH) ETFlater that week,and by the end of the month, the bank appointed one of Morgan Stanley’s longest-standing executives, Amy Oldenburg, to lead its digital asset team.

Morgan Stanley also applied for anational trust banking charteron Feb. 18, seeking to custody certain digital assets and execute purchases, sales and swaps for clients in addition to staking services.

In October, before the investment bank adopted its institutional crypto strategy, itrecommended a 2% to 4% allocation to crypto portfoliosfor investors. It also allowed its financial advisors torecommend crypto fundsto clients with individual retirement accounts (IRAs) and 401(k)s.

Magazine:Bitcoin may face hard fork over any attempt to freeze Satoshi’s coins

Cointelegraph covers fintech, blockchain and Bitcoin bringing you the latest crypto news and analyses on the future of money.

Cointelegraph is committed to providing independent, high-quality journalism across the crypto, blockchain, AI, and fintech industries. To support open access to our website and sustain editorial operations, certain commercial or partner references may appear on our site. These arrangements help maintain an accessible platform and do not result in additional costs to readers.

All news, reviews, and analysis are produced with full journalistic independence and integrity. For more details on our standards and processes, please read ourEditorial Policy.