Title: Elon Musk's X hires crypto-savvy design lead as X Money payments push inches closer
Source: CoinDesk
URL: https://www.coindesk.com/business/2026/03/25/elon-musk-s-x-hires-crypto-savvy-design-lead-as-x-money-payments-push-inches-closer

Elon Musk’s social media platform X has hired a new head of design with deep roots in crypto product development, as the platform continues to expand into payments and financial services.

Benji Taylor said inWednesday postthat he now leads design for X under its ties to xAI and SpaceX.

TaylorfoundedLos Feliz Engineering, the team behind self-custody crypto wallet Family. Aave Labs, the development firm behind$42 billiondecentralized lender Aave,acquiredthe company in 2023, after which Taylor served as chief product officer until October 2025. Most recently, he was head of design at Base, the Ethereum-based blockchain network built by crypto exchange Coinbase (COIN).

X product lead Nikita Biersaidhe had tracked Taylor’s work for years and pushed to bring him on, calling one of his past products among the best designed he had seen.

The hire adds a designer with hands-on crypto experience at a time when X telegraphed its plans to roll out features to support payments and broader financial features on the platform.

Earlier this month, Musk said thatX Money is set to launch in April, offering peer-to-peer transactions, bank deposits, a debit card and cashback rewards in more than 40 U.S. states. It was also proposed to pay a 6% yield on balances.

However, there wasn't any mention of blockchain or crypto element in X Money at the time.

As stablecoins evolve into core financial infrastructure, North America leads. This report maps the regulation, market shifts, and players driving adoption.

Stablecoins are entering their third phase of evolution - the institutionalization era - becoming increasingly embedded into core financial infrastructure. As institutions prioritize transparency and compliance, regulated issuers like USDC, RLUSD, and PYUSD are steadily gaining share with RLUSD surpassing $1B in market cap within its first year. North America, leading in regulatory frameworks and institutional distribution, is at the center of it all.

The integration provides institutions with a compliant way to hold TRX and will be expanded to include TRC-20 assets and native TRX staking.