Title: Coinbase opposes stablecoin compromise in Senate crypto bill: Report
Source: Cointelegraph
URL: https://cointelegraph.com/news/coinbase-opposes-latest-crypto-bill-stablecoin-compromise-report?utm_source=rss_feed&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=rss_partner_inbound

Coinbase is reportedly still pushing back against stablecoin yield provisions in the Senate’s crypto market structure bill, a move that has derailed past efforts to advance the legislation.

Cointelegraph in your social feed

Crypto exchange Coinbase is reportedly against the latest compromise over stablecoin yields that the Senate is looking to include in its crypto market structure bill.

Coinbase representatives told Senate lawmakers in a meeting on Monday that they had concerns over the language around stablecoin yields in the new compromise version of the bill, Punchbowl NewsreportedWednesday, citing four people briefed on the exchange.

A proposal that circulated earlier this week would have reportedly prevented third parties, such as exchanges, frompaying stablecoin yields, a measure aimed at addressing banks’ concerns over the risk of deposit flight.

Coinbase is one of the largest crypto lobbyists in the US, and itswithdrawal of supportfor the bill in January came just before the Senate Banking Committee indefinitely postponed a markup to advance the legislation.

Republican Senator Thom Tillis and Democratic Senator Angela Alsobrooks areleading the latest effortto advance the bill, and talks are reportedly ongoing. Coinbase did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

The fight between the crypto and banking lobbies over the Senate’s bill, which aims to outline how regulators should approach crypto, has largely revolved around stablecoin yields.

The White House has hosted atleast three meetingsfor the groups to agree on a compromise, which has yet to materialize.

Banking groups argue that stablecoin yield payments by exchanges are a loophole in the GENIUS Act, which banned stablecoin issuers from paying yield to holders, and present a risk of deposit flight from the banking system.

Stablecoin yields are a major business for crypto exchanges, and the crypto lobby has argued that the risks are overstated and has accused the banks of anticompetitive behavior.

Related:CLARITY Act 2026 odds ‘extremely low’ if not passed before April: Exec

Republicans are pushing to pass the bill ahead of the midterms, where the makeup of Congress could change and derail momentum around the legislation. The House passed its version of the bill, called the CLARITY Act, in July.

Patrick Witt, the executive director of the President’s Council of Advisors for Digital Assets,postedto X on Wednesday that there was “plenty of uninformed FUD [fear, uncertainty and doubt] circulating on social media this week.”

“It’s all going to work out. Bullish,” he added.

Republican Senator Cynthia Lummis alsopostedto X on Wednesday that “we can’t wait until 2030 for another chance” to pass the crypto bill.

“Bipartisan compromise is necessary for the Clarity Act to pass,” she added. “We’re working around the clock to ensure stablecoin rewards are protected and to prevent deposit flight from community banks.”

Magazine:How crypto laws changed in 2025 — and how they’ll change in 2026

Cointelegraph covers fintech, blockchain and Bitcoin bringing you the latest crypto news and analyses on the future of money.

Cointelegraph is committed to providing independent, high-quality journalism across the crypto, blockchain, AI, and fintech industries. To support open access to our website and sustain editorial operations, certain commercial or partner references may appear on our site. These arrangements help maintain an accessible platform and do not result in additional costs to readers.

All news, reviews, and analysis are produced with full journalistic independence and integrity. For more details on our standards and processes, please read ourEditorial Policy.