Title: Bitcoin dips under $66K as oil sparks 'unsustainable' US inflation risk
Source: Cointelegraph
URL: https://cointelegraph.com/news/bitcoin-dips-under-66k-oil-sparks-unsustainable-inflation-risk?utm_source=rss_feed&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=rss_partner_inbound

Bitcoin joined a risk-asset rout as oil-supply nerves sparked major US inflation warnings, with $70,000 in place as new BTC price resistance.

Cointelegraph in your social feed

Bitcoin (BTC) neared $66,000 at Friday’s Wall Street open as analysis called US inflation trends “objectively unsustainable.”

Bitcoin drops further on oil-supply woes as Iran closes the Strait of Hormuz.

BTC price performance is set to seal its sixth straight month of losses at the March close.

Traders eye the lows with $70,000 back as resistance.

Data from TradingView captured ongoing BTC price losses, which approached 4% on the day and threatened to turn March into Bitcoin’s sixth consecutive “red” month.

Macro headlines drove weakness across risk assets. US stocks opened downward after Iran closed the Strait of Hormuz, sharpening nerves over global oil supplies.

With the US-Iran war set to extend into April, markets showed stress everywhere — including US bonds.

“The US bond market is in major trouble today,” trading resource The Kobeissi Letter warned in apost on X.

Kobeissi noted that the 10-year Treasury note was now at its highest levels since the war began,creating a major headachefor the Federal Reserve as it tries to tame inflation as labor-market conditions worsen.

“In less than one month, markets have gone from discussing rate cuts to rate hikes, with the base case showing a Fed PAUSE for the next 18 months,” it continued.

AsCointelegraph reported, oil prices have a pronounced impact on US inflation trends, while markets have also raised expectations ofrecession hitting in 2026.

“Inflation expectations have become so bad that the market is trading like an emergency Fed rate hike is imminent,” Kobeissi founder Adam Kobeissiadded.

Among Bitcoin traders, the mood was just as wary as BTC/USD circled itslowest levels in three weeks.

Related:Bitcoin value ‘off the chart’ as BTC price metric hits record lows in 2026

Analyzing four-hour time frames, Telegram trading resource Technical Crypto Analyst predicted a “likely” return to $64,000 next.

“BTC has clearly broken its ascending trendline and is now showing lower highs under the 70–72K supply, confirming a short-term bearish shift; with price losing the 68K support, continuation toward the 64–65K demand zone is likely, and only a reclaim above 70K would invalidate the bearish momentum,” it told subscribers.

Data fromCoinGlassrevealed the high stakes for price into the March monthly close, with BTC/USD readying its first six straight months of losses since the end of its 2018 bear market.

“Indeed seeing the market derisking into the weekend as expected and as we've been seeing several weeks now,” trader Daan Crypto Tradescontinued.

This article does not contain investment advice or recommendations. Every investment and trading move involves risk, and readers should conduct their own research when making a decision. While we strive to provide accurate and timely information, Cointelegraph does not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, or reliability of any information in this article. This article may contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Cointelegraph will not be liable for any loss or damage arising from your reliance on this information.

Cointelegraph covers fintech, blockchain and Bitcoin bringing you the latest crypto news and analyses on the future of money.

Cointelegraph is committed to providing independent, high-quality journalism across the crypto, blockchain, AI, and fintech industries. To support open access to our website and sustain editorial operations, certain commercial or partner references may appear on our site. These arrangements help maintain an accessible platform and do not result in additional costs to readers.

All news, reviews, and analysis are produced with full journalistic independence and integrity. For more details on our standards and processes, please read ourEditorial Policy.