Title: Bitcoin’s drawdown is ‘less dramatic’ this cycle, Fidelity says
Source: Cointelegraph
URL: https://cointelegraph.com/news/bitcoin-drawdown-much-less-dramatic-this-cycle-fidelity?utm_source=rss_feed&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=rss_partner_inbound

A shallower Bitcoin trench than previous cycles "indicates a maturing market with reduced volatility and stronger institutional confidence," said Nick Ruck, director of LVRG Research.

Cointelegraph in your social feed

Bitcoin has declined by about 50% this market cycle, far less than in previous cycles, Fidelity Digital Assets said, adding this trend could continue over time.

Bitcoin’s post-all-time-high drawdowns have historically been steep, at about 80% to 90%, but this cycle has been about 50%, Fidelity Digital Assets research analyst Zack Wainwright said Tuesday.

One can see the “diminishing returns” that have developed from cycle to cycle when looking at Bitcoin’s price performance from the perspective of the previous all-time high, he said.

“Each cycle has been less dramatic to the upside than the previous,” he said. “Downside risk has been less dramatic in 2026, the current cycle, as well,” he added.

Bitcoin’s price hit its current cycle low of just over $60,000 on Feb. 6, a decline of 52% from its Oct. 6 all-time high of about $126,000, according to TradingView. It is currently down 46% from its peak six months ago.

The previous cycle saw a much larger decline of 77%, from the 2021 all-time high of $69,000 to abear marketlow just below $16,000 in November 2022.

Fidelity’s assessment that this Bitcoin cycle is notably shallower than prior cycles “indicates a maturing market with reduced volatility and stronger institutional confidence,” Nick Ruck, director of LVRG Research, told Cointelegraph on Wednesday.

Related:Bitcoin’s $10K range expected to hold until spot traders show up: Data

Meanwhile, Alphractal founder Joao WedsonobservedTuesday that Bitcoin’s top occurred 534 days after thelast halving, a shorter span than in the previous cycle.

This “decaying pattern” across cycles suggests the historical bottom may occur between 912 and 922 days after the halving, which “points to a bottom in late September or early October 2026,” he said.

Bitcoin remains below the key 50-day and 200-day exponential moving averages, two long-term trend indicators.

It is hovering at the 200-week EMA,around $68,000, which has served as a key level of support during previous market downturns.

Magazine:Nobody knows if quantum secure cryptography will even work

Cointelegraph covers fintech, blockchain and Bitcoin bringing you the latest crypto news and analyses on the future of money.

Cointelegraph is committed to providing independent, high-quality journalism across the crypto, blockchain, AI, and fintech industries. To support open access to our website and sustain editorial operations, certain commercial or partner references may appear on our site. These arrangements help maintain an accessible platform and do not result in additional costs to readers.

All news, reviews, and analysis are produced with full journalistic independence and integrity. For more details on our standards and processes, please read ourEditorial Policy.