Title: UK pushes ahead with temporary ban on political crypto donations
Source: Cointelegraph
URL: https://cointelegraph.com/news/uk-forges-ahead-political-crypto-donations-ban?utm_source=rss_feed&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=rss_partner_inbound

The government plans to implement the ban by amending the Representation of the People Bill, with changes taking "retrospective effect" from Wednesday.

Cointelegraph in your social feed

The UK government is advancing plans for a moratorium on political donations made through cryptocurrencies, following an independent review and pressure from multiple high-ranking politicians.

Cointelegraphreported on Wednesdaythat the Rycroft Review, an independent inquiry into foreign financial interference in the UK’s political and electoral systems, recommended a moratorium on crypto donations to political parties.

New statements from UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer on Wednesday have confirmed that the government will pursue the temporary ban.

“I can tell the House we will act decisively to protect our democracy. That will include a moratorium on all political donations made through cryptocurrencies,”saidStarmer during Prime Minister's Question Time on Wednesday.

Several members of parliament, including thechair of the security committee, have beenpushing for a full ban this year,warning that foreign states could exploit crypto payments to influence UK politics.

Under the new measure, crypto will be prohibited for political donations until robust regulations are in place to prevent untraceable funds and foreign interference in UK elections,accordingto a separate government statement on Wednesday.

The ban would require amending the Representation of the People Bill, and the government said the changes would take “retrospective effect” from March 25.

The legislation is at the committee stage in the House of Commons. It needs topassthrough both the House of Commons and the House of Lords, then receive royal assent from King Charles III to become law.

“Once the legislation comes into force, political parties and regulated entities like candidates and MPs will then have 30 days to return any unlawful donations they may have received in the interim, after which enforcement action can be taken,” the government said.

Related: ​​Top UK Labour lawmakers push to ban political donations made in crypto

Reform UK was the first political party in the country toaccept crypto donationsin May last year, with leader Nigel Farage announcing at the Bitcoin 2025 conference in Las Vegas that the group would accept Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies from eligible donors.

Once the ban comes into force, it won’t lift until “Parliament and the Electoral Commission are satisfied that the regulatory environment is robust enough to ensure confidence and transparency in donations being made in this way.”

The next general election in the UK must be held by Aug. 15, 2029.

Magazine:How crypto laws changed in 2025 — and how they’ll change in 2026

Cointelegraph covers fintech, blockchain and Bitcoin bringing you the latest crypto news and analyses on the future of money.

Cointelegraph is committed to providing independent, high-quality journalism across the crypto, blockchain, AI, and fintech industries. To support open access to our website and sustain editorial operations, certain commercial or partner references may appear on our site. These arrangements help maintain an accessible platform and do not result in additional costs to readers.

All news, reviews, and analysis are produced with full journalistic independence and integrity. For more details on our standards and processes, please read ourEditorial Policy.