Title: Twenty One Capital now 2nd-largest publicly traded BTC holder after MARA sale
Source: Cointelegraph
URL: https://cointelegraph.com/news/twenty-one-2nd-largest-btc-holder-mara?utm_source=rss_feed&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=rss_partner_inbound

Bitcoin advocate Jack Mallers' Twenty One Capital holds 43,514 BTC in its corporate treasury, now second only to Strategy's 762,099 BTC accumulation.

Cointelegraph in your social feed

Jack Mallers’ Twenty One Capital is now the second-largest publicly traded Bitcoin (BTC) treasury by holdings after miner MARA sold part of its stack and slipped to third place.

The newly formed Bitcoin treasury company holds 43,514 BTC in its corporate treasury, valued at over $2.9 billion using the market price at the time of this writing, according to data fromBitcoinTreasuries.

Twenty One Capital was publicly listed late last year following its businesscombinationwith Cantor Equity Partners, a special purpose acquisition company. Now trading under the ticker XXI, the NYSE-listed shares are down more than 25% year-to-date.

MARA sold 15,133 BTC, valued at about $1.1 billion, throughout March 2026. The next largest publicly traded Bitcoin holder is Japanese BTC treasury company Metaplanet with 35,100. Bitcoin Treasuries analyst Tyler Rowe said in a note on Thursday:

This aggressive borrowing is in “sharp contrast” to the business model popularized by BTC treasury company Strategy, which treats BTC as “perpetual digital credit,” using it as collateral to continually finance BTC acquisitions.

"Can miners sustainably operate as Bitcoin treasury companies without the capital markets infrastructure Saylor spent five years building?" Rowe said in the note shared with Cointelegraph.

Some market observers note the change signals the capitulation of crypto treasury and mining companies amid achallenging business environment, worsened by the crypto bear market that started in October 2025 and declining share prices.

Related:Sweden’s H100 eyes Europe’s No. 2 Bitcoin treasury with 3,500 BTC deal

In June 2025, venture capital firm Breed said that only afew crypto treasury companies would survivethe “death spiral” of contracting market net asset values (mNAVs) by maintaining a price premium that would allow these companies to secure more financing.

As access to cheap financing options disappears, companies trading at or below their net asset value would have to sell their BTC holdings to meet debt obligations, according to Breed.

Companies that treat their crypto holdings as a speculative bet, rather than a long-term play, were likely to capitulate between cycles, Deng Chao, CEO of asset manager HashKey Capital, told Cointelegraph.

At the same time, crypto treasury companies with adisciplined treasury strategy would lastthrough multiple cycles, he said.

Magazine:Bitcoin’s ‘biggest bull catalyst’ would be Saylor’s liquidation: Santiment founder

Cointelegraph covers fintech, blockchain and Bitcoin bringing you the latest crypto news and analyses on the future of money.

Cointelegraph is committed to providing independent, high-quality journalism across the crypto, blockchain, AI, and fintech industries. To support open access to our website and sustain editorial operations, certain commercial or partner references may appear on our site. These arrangements help maintain an accessible platform and do not result in additional costs to readers.

All news, reviews, and analysis are produced with full journalistic independence and integrity. For more details on our standards and processes, please read ourEditorial Policy.