Title: Tether Taps KPMG for First Big Four USDT Audit Amid U.S. Expansion Push
Source: Decrypt
URL: https://decrypt.co/362556/tether-taps-kpmg-for-first-big-four-usdt-audit-amid-u-s-expansion-push

Tether Taps KPMG for First Big Four USDT Audit Amid U.S. Expansion Push

Tether has engaged KPMG to conduct a comprehensive audit ofUSDT, the world's largeststablecoinwith approximately$184 billion in circulation.

TheFinancial Timesreported that the stablecoin issuer had hired KPMG, following Tether’sannouncementearlier in the week that it had engaged a Big Four accounting firm for the first time to conduct a full financial statement audit.

Per theFT, Tether has also brought in PwC to prepare its internal systems for the audit process. The dual engagement comes as Tether facesinvestor hesitationin its fundraising efforts while pursuing expansion into the U.S. market.

The comprehensive review will examine Tether's complete financial reporting system, including internal controls and asset valuation, according to industry analysis.

The audit represents a significant shift for Tether, which has faced scrutiny over its reserves transparency and was hit with a$41 million fineby the CFTC in 2021 over “misleading statements” relating to USDT.

Tetherclaimsto hold some $192 billion in reserve assets to back the value of its dollar-pegged stablecoin, USDT, the majority of which are purported to be held in U.S. Treasuries.

Tether has long sought an audit of its reserves by one of the Big Four accounting firms—Deloitte, PricewaterhouseCoopers, Ernst & Young, and KPMG—the world’s largest auditors, regarded as a kitemark of transparency and rigor.

Last year, Tether CEO Paolo ArdoinotoldDecryptthat the El Salvador-based firm intended to register USDT under the GENIUS Act’s regime for foreign stablecoin issuers, which imposes stringent anti-money laundering requirements and comprehensive audits of reserves.

In January, Tetherissued USAT, a fully-regulated and GENIUS-Act compliant dollar-pegged stablecoin—but with a circulating supply of just$28 million, the token is a minnow compared to USDT.

Your gateway into the world of Web3

The latest news, articles, and resources, sent to your inbox weekly.

© A next-generation media company.2026Decrypt Media, Inc.