Title: California governor signs order banning prediction market insider trading
Source: Cointelegraph
URL: https://cointelegraph.com/news/california-governor-executive-order-government-insider-trading-prediction-markets?utm_source=rss_feed&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=rss_partner_inbound

The executive order is the latest in a wave of legal actions in the US seeking to curb government insider trading on prediction markets.

Cointelegraph in your social feed

California Governor Gavin Newsom signed an executive order on Friday, expanding rules to curb public servants and those close to them from benefiting from insider trading on prediction markets tied to political or economic events they can influence or are privy to.

Theorderprohibits “gubernatorial appointees,” public officials appointed to office by the governor of the state, from using “confidential or non-public information” gleaned from performing their duties to profit from related prediction markets.

Newsom’s executive order also extends the prohibition to include spouses, family members or former business partners of the appointed officials from using non-public information to profit. “Public service should not be a get-rich-quick scheme,” Newsomsaid. He added:

An announcement from Newsom’s office listed several instances of political insiders using non-public information to profit from prediction markets, including six suspected political insiders whoprofited from US strikes on Iran.

Newsom’s office also cited another case of suspected insider trading, which occurred in January, afterone Polymarket trader netted $410,000betting that the US would arrest former Venezuelan leader Nicolás Maduro hours before his capture.

Prediction markets have come under scrutiny from US lawmakers, who argue that political insiders are using the platforms to unfairly benefit from their positions and are potentially threatening national security bywagering on sensitive events like warand elections.

Related:Detroit set to enter Michigan‘s battle against Coinbase prediction markets

Texas Congressman Greg Casar and Connecticut Senator Chris Murphy introduced the “Banning Event Trading on Sensitive Operations and ​Federal Functions (BETS OFF) Act” in March 2026 in response to theprediction market insider tradingallegations.

The bill seeks to prohibit government insiders from using prediction platforms to profit from markets tied to war or death.

US Representative Adrian Smith and Representative Nikki Budzinski alsointroduced similar legislationin March, titled the “Preventing Real-time Exploitation and Deceptive Insider Congressional Trading (PREDICT) Act.”The legislative proposal prohibits the US President, lawmakers and other high-ranking government officials from betting on prediction markets.

Magazine:Train AI agents to make better predictions… for token rewards

Cointelegraph covers fintech, blockchain and Bitcoin bringing you the latest crypto news and analyses on the future of money.

Cointelegraph is committed to providing independent, high-quality journalism across the crypto, blockchain, AI, and fintech industries. To support open access to our website and sustain editorial operations, certain commercial or partner references may appear on our site. These arrangements help maintain an accessible platform and do not result in additional costs to readers.

All news, reviews, and analysis are produced with full journalistic independence and integrity. For more details on our standards and processes, please read ourEditorial Policy.