Title: Fed's Warsh hearing could come as soon as April 13 week: Punchbowl
Source: Cointelegraph
URL: https://cointelegraph.com/news/fed-nominee-kevin-warsh-nomination-hearing-as-soon-as-april-13-punchbowl?utm_source=rss_feed&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=rss_partner_inbound

The Senate Banking Committee hearing for the Fed chair nominee is expected around mid-April. Senator Elizabeth Warren has pushed back against the proposed Fed appointment.

Cointelegraph in your social feed

The Senate Banking Committee is reportedly planning to hold its hearing on the nomination of Kevin Warsh as Federal Reserve chair as soon as the week of April 13, according to a report from Punchbowl News citing two sources familiar with the matter.

In areporton Sunday, Punchbowl’s sources said the hearing date is "fluid" and that the final deadline depends on Warsh submitting all of his paperwork to the banking committee.

Current Fed Chair Jerome Powell's term is set to end on May 15, but he has previouslysaidhe will remain chair until his successor is officially confirmed. A nomination hearing in mid-April helps chart a more visible path to Warsh’s successful confirmation.

Warsh's first stint at the Fed was between 2006 and 2011, when he served on the Board of Governors after being nominated by former President George W. Bush.

This time, Warsh is set for the top role, and the 55-year-old has saidhe would push for "regime change" in how the Fed conducts its policy on interest rates and balance sheet management.

Related:David Sacks’ 130-day term as Trump’s crypto and AI czar has ended

"Their hesitancy to cut rates, I think, is actually ... quite a mark against them," Warsh told CNBC's "Squawk Box" in July last year, adding:

However, Warsh’s nomination has faced political resistance. Senator Thom Tillis has vowed not to vote for any Fed nominees and will attempt to block the nomination until aDepartment of Justice (DOJ) probeinto Powell is resolved.

In January, the DOJ opened an investigation into Powell over the expenses relating to a multi-year renovation project at Fed office buildings.

Trump's pick for the Fed chair has also been met with pushback from Senator Elizabeth Warren, whosenta strong-worded letter to Warsh last Wednesday.

Senator Warren accused Warsh of having learned "nothing" from his "failures" during his previous stint at the Fed, which included the 2008 financial crisis and Great Recession.

Warren also said Warsh will ultimately serve as a "rubber stamp for President Trump's Wall Street First Agenda."

"Your eagerness to bail out Wall Street, including through taxpayer-assisted megamergers, was not surprising, given the seven years you spent as a Morgan Stanley mergers and acquisitions executive prior to joining the George W. Bush administration," Warren said.

Magazine:Morgan Stanley Bitcoin ETF undercuts BlackRock, SBF pardon unlikely: Hodler’s Digest, Mar. 22 – 28

Cointelegraph covers fintech, blockchain and Bitcoin bringing you the latest crypto news and analyses on the future of money.

Cointelegraph is committed to providing independent, high-quality journalism across the crypto, blockchain, AI, and fintech industries. To support open access to our website and sustain editorial operations, certain commercial or partner references may appear on our site. These arrangements help maintain an accessible platform and do not result in additional costs to readers.

All news, reviews, and analysis are produced with full journalistic independence and integrity. For more details on our standards and processes, please read ourEditorial Policy.