Title: Trump advisory council draws Coinbase co-founder, tech leaders
Source: Cointelegraph
URL: https://cointelegraph.com/news/crypto-ai-leaders-trump-advisory-council?utm_source=rss_feed&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=rss_partner_inbound

The council, co-chaired by White House AI and crypto czar David Sacks and science adviser Michael Kratsios, includes Mark Zuckerberg, Larry Ellison and Jensen Huang.

Cointelegraph in your social feed

US President Donald Trump announced the appointment of 13 members from the crypto, blockchain, AI, and technology industries to his Council of Advisors on Science and Technology, re-established by executive order in January 2025.

In a Wednesday notice, the White Housesaidthat the council would include Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg, Coinbase co-founder Fred Ehrsam, Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang, Oracle chief technology officer Larry Ellison, and others from major tech companies.

According to the White House, the council could have up to 24 members, many of whom “will be appointed in the near future.”

The council will be co-chaired by White House AI and crypto czar David Sacks and Trump’s science advisor Michael Kratsios. According to the January executiveorderre-establishing the council under Trump, it will “advise the President on matters involving science, technology, education, and innovation policy.”

Many of the tech industry representatives have a history of supporting the Trump administration. Huang has previously met with the president to discuss export controls for Nvidia’s chips, while Zuckerberg traveled to Trump’s private Mar-a-Lago club in November 2024 after his election win and attended a White House dinner with other executives from tech companies in September 2025.

Related:SEC’s top enforcer clashed over Trump cases before quitting: Report

The appointment of the council’s members came less than a week after the White Housereleased a national AI framework, calling on Congress to pass legislation that will preempt state-level laws. Trump has been pushing Republicans to pass the SAVE America Act — legislation requiring proof of citizenship to register to vote —sayingon March 8 that he “will not sign other bills” until it passes.

Since a comprehensive digital asset market structure bill, called the CLARITY Act, passed the House of Representatives in July 2025, the Senate has faced several setbacks stalling progress on the legislation. From scheduled recesses to government shutdowns to industry concerns over stablecoin yield, progress on moving the bill forward was nowhere to be seen.

The Senate Agriculture Committeeadvanced its versionof the market structure bill in January, but a markup in the Senate Banking Committee — essential to address implications on securities laws and regulations — was postponed after Coinbase CEO Brian Armstrong said the company could not support the bill as written. As of Wednesday, the committee had not announced a new date for the markup.

Magazine:The dirty secret about quantum signatures: No one knows if they work

Cointelegraph covers fintech, blockchain and Bitcoin bringing you the latest crypto news and analyses on the future of money.

Cointelegraph is committed to providing independent, high-quality journalism across the crypto, blockchain, AI, and fintech industries. To support open access to our website and sustain editorial operations, certain commercial or partner references may appear on our site. These arrangements help maintain an accessible platform and do not result in additional costs to readers.

All news, reviews, and analysis are produced with full journalistic independence and integrity. For more details on our standards and processes, please read ourEditorial Policy.