Title: David Sacks’ 130-day term as Trump’s crypto and AI czar has ended
Source: Cointelegraph
URL: https://cointelegraph.com/news/david-sacks-crypto-ai-czar-job-ends-takes-on-new-role?utm_source=rss_feed&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=rss_partner_inbound

David Sacks will lead a new tech-focused advisory group established by the White House, which will include key tech leaders like Nvidia’s Jensen Huang and Meta’s Mark Zuckerberg.

Cointelegraph in your social feed

David Sacks, a venture capitalist who became a special White House official under US President Donald Trump last year, has wrapped up his 130-day tenure as crypto and AI czar but will continue to shape policy in a new role.

“We've now used up that time,” SackstoldBloomberg on Thursday, noting that he will continue making policy recommendations across a broad range of tech industries as co-chair of the President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST).

Sacks has been an influential figure in the White House since Trump’s appointment in December 2024, acting as the president’s key adviser on technology. Reuters noted that under ​US rules, special ⁠government employees are limited to 130 days of work in a 12-month period.

Still, the new role will overlap with his previous duties as crypto and AI czar, and he and other members will “study issues together” before issuing official recommendations to regulators, Sacks noted.

As the crypto and AI czar, Sacks helped the President's Working Group on Digital Asset Markets release a166-page reportin July, whichoutlined recommendationson how the crypto industry should be regulated.

More recently, on March 20, Sacks helped the Trump administrationput out an AI frameworkthat seeks to empower AI innovation and workplace development while protecting children and intellectual property rights.

Sacks also played a role in the passage of thestablecoin-focused GENIUS Actin July and continues to push for crypto market structure legislation, such as theCLARITY Act.

A report from Fox Business, quoting a senior adviser to the president, said Sacks will continue serving as AI and crypto czar while taking on a broader portfolio.

"David will always be his crypto and AI czar, but to the admin more broadly, this new role will allow him to advise on a broader range of critical tech issues," they said.

PCAST will consist of 13 tech leaders spread across AI, crypto, health care and quantum computing.

Among the members joining Sacks are Nvidia’s Jensen Huang, Meta’s Mark Zuckerberg, AMD’s Lisa Su, Oracle’s Larry Ellison, Andreessen “a16z” Horowitz’s Marc Andreessen and Dell Technologies’ Michael Dell.

The only crypto-native member is Fred Ehrsam, who co-founded Coinbase with CEO Brian Armstrong in 2012 before co-founding crypto-focused VC Paradigm in 2018.

Related:SEC is no longer a ‘cop on the beat’ on crypto, says US lawmaker

Sacks said a primary focus of PCAST is to ensure America’s AI strategy is aligned between the federal and state governments:

“So what the president has called for is one rulebook,” he added.

Magazine:Big Questions: Can Bitcoin save you from the dreaded Cantillon Effect?

Cointelegraph covers fintech, blockchain and Bitcoin bringing you the latest crypto news and analyses on the future of money.

Cointelegraph is committed to providing independent, high-quality journalism across the crypto, blockchain, AI, and fintech industries. To support open access to our website and sustain editorial operations, certain commercial or partner references may appear on our site. These arrangements help maintain an accessible platform and do not result in additional costs to readers.

All news, reviews, and analysis are produced with full journalistic independence and integrity. For more details on our standards and processes, please read ourEditorial Policy.