Title: Bitcoin reclaims $72K after US, Iran agree to 2-week ceasefire
Source: Cointelegraph
URL: https://cointelegraph.com/news/bitcoin-price-spike-us-president-donald-trump-iran-ceasefire?utm_source=rss_feed&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=rss_partner_inbound

Iran's Supreme National Security Council on Wednesday accepted a two-week ceasefire with the US, but emphasized this did not mean an end to the war.

Cointelegraph in your social feed

The price of Bitcoin pushed past $72,000 for the first time in 20 days after the US and Iran agreed to a two-week ceasefire.

“I agree to suspend the bombing and attack of Iran for a period of two weeks,” US President Donald Trumpsaidin a Truth Social post on Tuesday, hours before his deadline for Iran to reopen the Strait of Hormuz or face military attacks on key infrastructure.

Iran's Supreme National Security Council also said it accepted the ceasefire. Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchisaid, “If attacks against Iran are halted, our Powerful Armed Forces will cease their defensive operations.”

“For a period of two weeks, safe passage through the Strait of Hormuz will be possible via coordination with Iran’s Armed Forces and with due consideration of technical limitations,” Araghchi said.

Bitcoin (BTC) climbed 2.6% in the hour following the announcement, reaching $72,339 at the time of publication,accordingto CoinMarketCap.

Crypto traders have historically seen geopolitical tensions as a headwind for prices, with any hints of easing often triggering quick relief rallies.

The ceasefire agreement also came hours after Trump renewed his threats against Iran.

“A whole civilization will die tonight, never to be brought back again. I don’t want that to happen, but it probably will,” Trumpsaidin a post on Monday.

On April 1, Trump said the US could wrap upits military campaignin Iran within weeks, claiming the goal of eliminating Iran’s nuclear capabilities had been achieved.

Related:Bitcoin wallets absorb 4.37M BTC as network activity flips to 'bull phase’

The last time Bitcoin traded above $72,000 was March 18, as sentiment continues to drag in the crypto market.

Bitcoin’s upward price move came just a day after MN Trading Capital founder Michael van de Poppesaidthat “the decision for direction isn’t that far away,” adding:

The Crypto Fear & GreedIndex, which measures overall crypto market sentiment, posted an “extreme fear” score of 11 on Tuesday, signaling that investors are taking a cautious approach to the crypto market.

Some industry participants, such as veteran trader Peter Brandt, are notanticipating that Bitcoinwill reach a new all-time high in 2026.

Magazine:‘Phantom Bitcoin’ checks, Drift hack linked to North Korea: Asia Express

Cointelegraph covers fintech, blockchain and Bitcoin bringing you the latest crypto news and analyses on the future of money.

Cointelegraph is committed to providing independent, high-quality journalism across the crypto, blockchain, AI, and fintech industries. To support open access to our website and sustain editorial operations, certain commercial or partner references may appear on our site. These arrangements help maintain an accessible platform and do not result in additional costs to readers.

All news, reviews, and analysis are produced with full journalistic independence and integrity. For more details on our standards and processes, please read ourEditorial Policy.