Title: Retail Investors Growing Exposed to Bitcoin Giant Strategy’s STRC Over MSTR, Says CEO
Source: Decrypt
URL: https://decrypt.co/362480/retail-investors-growing-exposed-bitcoin-strategy-strc-over-mstr

Retail Investors Growing Exposed to Bitcoin Giant Strategy’s STRC Over MSTR, Says CEO

Strategy CEO Phong Le signaled on Thursday that retail investors are becoming increasingly interested in theBitcoin-buying firm’s flagship preferred share relative to its common stock, highlighting who is exposed to the company’s shift in fundraising efforts.

Although individuals currently hold approximately 40% of the company’s ordinary shares, Lee noted in aposton X that they presently make up around 80% of those invested in STRC. Strategy started pitching the shares alongside its $2.5 billion debut last year.

At a market cap of $5 billion, Lee suggested that STRC’s popularity among retail investors indicates that they “prefer low-volatility, high-yield digital credit.” The assessment comes as Strategy’s common stock (MSTR) price has plunged 56% over the past six months to $134.

Not long after STRC debuted in July, Strategy Executive Chairman and co-founder Michael Saylor said the product that currently pays 11.5% in dividends annually could be interesting for a “whole new class of people.” Those remarks focused oninvestors like retirees, yet the product has alsostarted showing upon its Bitcoin-buying peers’ balance sheets.

~ 40% of$MSTRshares are owned by retail. ~ 80% of$STRCshares are owned by retail. Retail investors prefer low-volatility, high-yield digital credit.

— Phong Le (@phongle)March 26, 2026

Platforms common among retail investors have expanded access to STRC, which trades on the Nasdaq, including Robinhood, Kraken, and Webull. At 80% of STRC’s market cap, Lee indicated that retail investors hold $4 billion worth of the dividend-paying product.

On a notional basis, that’s still less than the value of common shares that Lee said retail investors hold. A 40% slice of Strategy’s $46.3 billion market cap is currently $18.5 billion.

The notion that Strategy’s common stock is losing preference among retail investors makes sense when viewed through a risk-adjusted lens, according to Mark Palmer, an equity research analyst at investment banking firm Benchmark-StoneX.

“The company’s common stock offers theoretically unbounded upside, but it is essentially a leveraged, non-yielding Bitcoin proxy and therefore better suited for sophisticated, risk-tolerant investors,” he toldDecrypt. “STRC offers a predictable return through its high-yield, low-volatility, and significant Bitcoin overcollateralization that limits downside, and as such it maps better to how most retail investors are accustomed to thinking about income-generating assets.”

Analysts at Benchmark, who have penciled in a year-end price target of $705 for Strategy, are among the Bitcoin-buying firm’s most bullish on Wall Street. Analysts at TD Cowen, for example,paredtheir price target to $500 from $440 earlier this year.

The investment bank’s managing director of equity research, Lance Vitzana, recently toldDecryptthat STRC’s uptick in issuance followed Strategy’s annual conference in Las Vegas last month. He noted that STRC was marketed aggressively during the two-day confab.

So far this month, Strategy has raised more than $1.5 billion via the dividend-paying product, which is engineered to trade at near its $100 par value. That represents around 33% of the product’s market cap, including its multi-billion-dollar public offering.

When the preferred share trades above that threshold, Strategy issues more shares to grow its Bitcoin stockpile. If the product lingers below, then the firm has indicated that it will hike the dividend in an effort to increase demand and lift STRC back towards its target.

Even though institutional investors are allocating to STRC, Palmer said that group is unlikely to displace demand from individuals. That’s because institutions tend to prefer the relative liquidity of Strategy’s common equity and asymmetric risk-reward profile, he said.

“In that sense, STRC is carving out a distinct investor base rather than competing directly with Strategy’s common stock,” Palmer added. “Importantly, this dynamic strengthens Strategy’s ability to raise capital for bitcoin accumulation, as STRC effectively expands the company’s addressable investor base.”

Your gateway into the world of Web3

The latest news, articles, and resources, sent to your inbox weekly.

© A next-generation media company.2026Decrypt Media, Inc.